README.md, before:

# [virtualbox](#virtualbox)

Install and configure virtualbox on your system.

|GitHub|GitLab|Quality|Downloads|Version|
|------|------|-------|---------|-------|
|[![github](https://github.com/robertdebock/ansible-role-virtualbox/workflows/Ansible%20Molecule/badge.svg)](https://github.com/robertdebock/ansible-role-virtualbox/actions)|[![gitlab](https://gitlab.com/robertdebock/ansible-role-virtualbox/badges/master/pipeline.svg)](https://gitlab.com/robertdebock/ansible-role-virtualbox)|[![quality](https://img.shields.io/ansible/quality/46445)](https://galaxy.ansible.com/robertdebock/virtualbox)|[![downloads](https://img.shields.io/ansible/role/d/46445)](https://galaxy.ansible.com/robertdebock/virtualbox)|[![Version](https://img.shields.io/github/release/robertdebock/ansible-role-virtualbox.svg)](https://github.com/robertdebock/ansible-role-virtualbox/releases/)|

## [Example Playbook](#example-playbook)

This example is taken from `molecule/default/converge.yml` and is tested on each push, pull request and release.
```yaml
---
- name: converge
  hosts: all
  become: yes
  gather_facts: yes

  roles:
    - role: robertdebock.virtualbox
```

The machine needs to be prepared in CI this is done using `molecule/default/prepare.yml`:
```yaml
---
- name: prepare
  hosts: all
  become: yes
  gather_facts: no

  roles:
    - role: robertdebock.bootstrap
    - role: robertdebock.ca_certificates
```

Also see a [full explanation and example](https://robertdebock.nl/how-to-use-these-roles.html) on how to use these roles.

## [Role Variables](#role-variables)

These variables are set in `defaults/main.yml`:
```yaml
---
# defaults file for virtualbox

virtualbox_version: "6.1"
```

## [Requirements](#requirements)

- pip packages listed in [requirements.txt](https://github.com/robertdebock/ansible-role-virtualbox/blob/master/requirements.txt).

## [Status of requirements](#status-of-requirements)

The following roles are used to prepare a system. You may choose to prepare your system in another way, I have tested these roles as well.

| Requirement | GitHub | GitLab |
|-------------|--------|--------|
|[robertdebock.bootstrap](https://galaxy.ansible.com/robertdebock/bootstrap)|[![Build Status GitHub](https://github.com/robertdebock/ansible-role-bootstrap/workflows/Ansible%20Molecule/badge.svg)](https://github.com/robertdebock/ansible-role-bootstrap/actions)|[![Build Status GitLab ](https://gitlab.com/robertdebock/ansible-role-bootstrap/badges/master/pipeline.svg)](https://gitlab.com/robertdebock/ansible-role-bootstrap)|
|[robertdebock.ca_certificates](https://galaxy.ansible.com/robertdebock/ca_certificates)|[![Build Status GitHub](https://github.com/robertdebock/ansible-role-ca_certificates/workflows/Ansible%20Molecule/badge.svg)](https://github.com/robertdebock/ansible-role-ca_certificates/actions)|[![Build Status GitLab ](https://gitlab.com/robertdebock/ansible-role-ca_certificates/badges/master/pipeline.svg)](https://gitlab.com/robertdebock/ansible-role-ca_certificates)|

## [Context](#context)

This role is a part of many compatible roles. Have a look at [the documentation of these roles](https://robertdebock.nl/) for further information.

Here is an overview of related roles:
![dependencies](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/robertdebock/ansible-role-virtualbox/png/requirements.png "Dependencies")

## [Compatibility](#compatibility)

This role has been tested on these [container images](https://hub.docker.com/u/robertdebock):

|container|tags|
|---------|----|
|el|8|
|debian|buster|
|fedora|33, 34|
|ubuntu|focal, bionic|

The minimum version of Ansible required is 2.10, tests have been done to:

- The previous version.
- The current version.
- The development version.

## [Exceptions](#exceptions)

Some variarations of the build matrix do not work. These are the variations and reasons why the build won't work:

| variation                 | reason                 |
|---------------------------|------------------------|
| centos:8 | Ansible module rpm_key is not idempotent. |
| fedora | file /usr/bin/VBox conflicts between attempted installs of VirtualBox-6.1-6.1.10_138449_fedora31-1.x86_64 and VirtualBox-5.2-5.2.42_137960_fedora29-1.x86_64 |


If you find issues, please register them in [GitHub](https://github.com/robertdebock/ansible-role-virtualbox/issues)

## [License](#license)

Apache-2.0

## [Author Information](#author-information)

[Robert de Bock](https://robertdebock.nl/)

Please consider [sponsoring me](https://github.com/sponsors/robertdebock).

Commit message:

Add bookwork, combine bullseye+bookwork and focal+bionic to all.

README.md, after:

# [virtualbox](#virtualbox)

Install and configure virtualbox on your system.

|GitHub|GitLab|Quality|Downloads|Version|
|------|------|-------|---------|-------|
|[![github](https://github.com/robertdebock/ansible-role-virtualbox/workflows/Ansible%20Molecule/badge.svg)](https://github.com/robertdebock/ansible-role-virtualbox/actions)|[![gitlab](https://gitlab.com/robertdebock/ansible-role-virtualbox/badges/master/pipeline.svg)](https://gitlab.com/robertdebock/ansible-role-virtualbox)|[![quality](https://img.shields.io/ansible/quality/46445)](https://galaxy.ansible.com/robertdebock/virtualbox)|[![downloads](https://img.shields.io/ansible/role/d/46445)](https://galaxy.ansible.com/robertdebock/virtualbox)|[![Version](https://img.shields.io/github/release/robertdebock/ansible-role-virtualbox.svg)](https://github.com/robertdebock/ansible-role-virtualbox/releases/)|

## [Example Playbook](#example-playbook)

This example is taken from `molecule/default/converge.yml` and is tested on each push, pull request and release.
```yaml
---
- name: converge
  hosts: all
  become: yes
  gather_facts: yes

  roles:
    - role: robertdebock.virtualbox
```

The machine needs to be prepared. In CI this is done using `molecule/default/prepare.yml`:
```yaml
---
- name: prepare
  hosts: all
  become: yes
  gather_facts: no

  roles:
    - role: robertdebock.bootstrap
    - role: robertdebock.ca_certificates
```

Also see a [full explanation and example](https://robertdebock.nl/how-to-use-these-roles.html) on how to use these roles.

## [Role Variables](#role-variables)

The default values for the variables are set in `defaults/main.yml`:
```yaml
---
# defaults file for virtualbox

virtualbox_version: "6.1"
```

## [Requirements](#requirements)

- pip packages listed in [requirements.txt](https://github.com/robertdebock/ansible-role-virtualbox/blob/master/requirements.txt).

## [Status of used roles](#status-of-requirements)

The following roles are used to prepare a system. You can prepare your system in another way.

| Requirement | GitHub | GitLab |
|-------------|--------|--------|
|[robertdebock.bootstrap](https://galaxy.ansible.com/robertdebock/bootstrap)|[![Build Status GitHub](https://github.com/robertdebock/ansible-role-bootstrap/workflows/Ansible%20Molecule/badge.svg)](https://github.com/robertdebock/ansible-role-bootstrap/actions)|[![Build Status GitLab ](https://gitlab.com/robertdebock/ansible-role-bootstrap/badges/master/pipeline.svg)](https://gitlab.com/robertdebock/ansible-role-bootstrap)|
|[robertdebock.ca_certificates](https://galaxy.ansible.com/robertdebock/ca_certificates)|[![Build Status GitHub](https://github.com/robertdebock/ansible-role-ca_certificates/workflows/Ansible%20Molecule/badge.svg)](https://github.com/robertdebock/ansible-role-ca_certificates/actions)|[![Build Status GitLab ](https://gitlab.com/robertdebock/ansible-role-ca_certificates/badges/master/pipeline.svg)](https://gitlab.com/robertdebock/ansible-role-ca_certificates)|

## [Context](#context)

This role is a part of many compatible roles. Have a look at [the documentation of these roles](https://robertdebock.nl/) for further information.

Here is an overview of related roles:
![dependencies](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/robertdebock/ansible-role-virtualbox/png/requirements.png "Dependencies")

## [Compatibility](#compatibility)

This role has been tested on these [container images](https://hub.docker.com/u/robertdebock):

|container|tags|
|---------|----|
|el|8|
|debian|bullseye|
|fedora|33, 34|
|ubuntu|all|

The minimum version of Ansible required is 2.10, tests have been done to:

- The previous version.
- The current version.
- The development version.

## [Exceptions](#exceptions)

Some roles can't run on a specific distribution or version. Here are some exceptions.

| variation                 | reason                 |
|---------------------------|------------------------|
| centos:8 | Ansible module rpm_key is not idempotent. |
| fedora | file /usr/bin/VBox conflicts between attempted installs of VirtualBox-6.1-6.1.10_138449_fedora31-1.x86_64 and VirtualBox-5.2-5.2.42_137960_fedora29-1.x86_64 |


If you find issues, please register them in [GitHub](https://github.com/robertdebock/ansible-role-virtualbox/issues)

## [License](#license)

Apache-2.0

## [Author Information](#author-information)

[Robert de Bock](https://robertdebock.nl/)

Please consider [sponsoring me](https://github.com/sponsors/robertdebock).
